---
layout: post
title:  "En Iniya Alice Munroe"
date:   2025-07-06 22:52:59 +0100
categories: jekyll update
---
'En Iniya' means 'My dear' in Tamil. A famous Tamil director from yester years almost always introduce his movies with 'My dear Tamil folks'. It will be followed by some form of how he is telling stories from the streets of Tamil villages. He has been praised by many as one of the pioneers of not only capturing the common folks and their lives in his films but also capturing the natural beauty of the countryside. I would wholeheartedly agree with this and he is worthy of every praise bestowed upon him. But, Here I want to touch upon his very first movie and its uncanny resemblence to one of the short stories of Alice Munroe titled 'How I met my husband?'. You can find it in her collection of short stories 'Something I have been meaning to tell you'. In her story, a young woman enthralled by a pilot, visiting her village somewhere in Canada, falls for him. In our Director's story, a young woman enthralled by a teacher visiting her village, somewhere in Tamil Nadu, falls for him. In Munroe's story, the protagonist Edie is waiting for the postman to bring his letter everyday. In our Director's story, the protagonist Mayil is waiting for the train to bring somebody everyday. There is a twist in both the stories in terms of who you would assume the main protagonist is going to marry, especially if you live in 70's. To his credit, it looked like a genuine inspiration as he brings in his own interpretation of the story, assuming he, in fact, got inspired after the reading Alice Munroe's short story. On the other hand, they could be mere coincidences and the resemblence merely a product of my spectacular imagination. You may very well ask why the necessity to tell this now after around 50 years of the first publication/release (1974/1977) of the book/movie. Even though I have watched the movie when I was a kid at least 20 years ago, I read Munroe's story a few years back only. En Iniya Earthlings, I have been itching to tell you this connection from then on.